---
title: "Yes, But is New Media Good for You?"
date: 2022-12-15T12:27:08-07:00
---

**Yes, But is New Media Good for You?**

New media amplifies all the greatest and most terrible things that society is capable of. Technology is always this source of danger, of risk. All of the biggest things that threaten our world at a small and large scale are all connected to misuse of technology. But at the same time, it's that very technology that will empower us and save us. Just in the past 15 years, technology has been abused and misused in a way that has affects everyone and their daily lives.

After the introduction of Web 2.0 which added write access to websites and dynamic content, companies realized the different ways they can abuse and further capitalize off of this new technology. This includes large amounts of data collection, intrusive advertising, mass manipulation, and abused search engine optimization. Entire companies and products are founded off of this abuse, Facebook, Instagram, Google, Tiktok, Spotify, Twitter, the list goes on. These companies and products are fundamentally developed to work against the consumer for profit. There are definitely good people and messages spread on these platforms, but in the end, more harm than good comes from these platforms. The biggest abusers of this new technology is social media.

Bachik states, "Social media can absolutely have negative effects on mental health. There is growing research that associates social-media use with sleep disturbances, emotional dysregulation, diminished academic performance and depression. These are just some of the negative outcomes." Social media is engineered to maximize engagement. The more time these companies can get you to spend on it, the more money they make. "Social media is invisibly shifting us through the code and the information that we engage with every day, and these platforms are changing our society and our civilization under our noses." (Mosley, Hagan) On the flip side, a large amount of media and communication is hosted on social media. This gives an extraordinary amount of power to these companies. They have the ability to fine tune how this content is shown and if it is.

The textbook briefly explains virtual reality, and it's convergence in replacing real world communities and communication. We've already briefly seen this when the pandemic hit and everything moved online. Businesses, and schools all working remotely through meetings and calls. This replicates that sense of online community and this convergence between reality and the internet. Facebook recently changed their name and branding to Meta. In which the have invested billions of dollars in a marketing term called the "Metaverse." Their business model is switching from social media to a new form of media. This new virtual form of media is expected to replace all aspects of people's lives with an artificial reality. A reality that can be further capitalized with data collection, mass marketing, manipulation, and all previous principles from the previous business model. A reality in which gives these companies more control than ever. In the end this sounds crazy, and it seems that Facebook (Meta), is wasting money on this idea that won't take off. But I would argue that it's not as crazy as some would think. If we looked to the future before social media and the internet, we would've said the same thing. People are crazy for carrying around bricks with them and spending all their time looking at them. This is the same concept, people are crazy for wearing VR headsets and becoming disconnected from reality. I really hope this isn't the future, but all the big tech companies seem to be betting otherwise.

In the end I believe that the current way that social media is presented is extremely harmful. I won't undermind that amazing things have come as a result of using social media as a tool. I believe that the current climate of social media has done more harm than good. Social media isn't going away, the form in which it's being used is changing. And so far the future is looking worse and increasingly corrupt.

[https://red.msudenver.edu/2022/is-social-media-bad-for-your-health/](https://red.msudenver.edu/2022/is-social-media-bad-for-your-health/)

[https://www.wbur.org/hereandnow/2020/09/18/social-dilemma-director](https://www.wbur.org/hereandnow/2020/09/18/social-dilemma-director)
