---
title: "AI Copyright Notes"
date: 2023-02-19T16:20:07-07:00
---
# Artificial intellegience and the copyright dilemma.
[Article](https://www.ipmall.info/sites/default/files/hosted_resources/IDEA/hristov_formatted.pdf)

## Photography and AI copyright correlation 
The 1884 Supreme Court case of Burrow-Giles Lithographic Co. v. Sarony first extended copyright protection to photography. The camera used to capture the image of writer Oscar Wilde by photographer Napoleon Sarony was considered by the court as a tool which aided the “author” in creating “an original work of art.”

Since the image created by a digital camera or smart phone is actually computer-generated, it may very well be compared to the creation of an art work using an AI program. Both processes are nearly automatic and it could be argued that an AI machine, just like a camera, is simply a tool employed by an author to express his or her idea in a tangible form.

## Public domain
In fact, creative works generated solely by AI machines are not copyrightable if
they do not satisfy the human author requirement of the Copyright Office.
This makes works created by AI machines, for which the human author of the machine is not directly responsible, fall into the public domain

## Public domain intends to motivate creativity
In the 1984 case of Sony Corp. of Am. v. Universal Studios, Inc. the Supreme Court ruled that the limited benefits associated with copyright ownership are “intended to motivate the creative activity of authors and inventors by the provision of a special reward, and allow the public access to the products of their genius after the limited period of exclusive control has expired.”

## Their claim
The focus of this paper only falls on the first example of employee generated works. This paper argues that both “employer” and “employee” should be viewed as relative terms within the scope of the made for hire doctrine. This open interpretation would prevent AI generated works from falling into the public domain by assigning their copyright to a human author

The AI work should be attritubted as "Failing to attribute the creation of a work to its rightful author has serious consequences and could potentially invalidate a copyright claim."

## Copyright doesn't apply to non-humans
During one of his shoots, Slater placed his camera on a tripod, adjusted the camera’s settings to accommodate for the surrounding environment and left the remote shutter button deliberately accessible to the macaques he was photographing.
A female macaque seized the opportunity and took a number of photos.
Upon returning home, Slater began licensing the photos under the presumption that he owned their copyright.
His legal claims over the photos were soon challenged in U.S. court. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) argued that the female macaque who had taken her own photographs should be the legal owner of their copyright.

In January 2016 the judge presiding over Naruto v. Slater dismissed the case stating that the monkey could not be considered an author for the purpose of the law and as a result may not posses any copyright even though the animal was directly responsible for the creative works in question. The judge further clarified that since an animal (non-human) does not
have legal standing in court, it may not sue or pursue copyright using the law. The court’s ruling effectively
released the photographs in question into the public domain, denying any claims of authorship by either David Slater or the female macaque.

## The U.S. copyright system hasn't made any changes because of AI technology
No changes, however, have been exercised to reflect the most recent technological phenomenon of machine learning, commonly referred to as artificial intelligence

The recent development of machine learning capabilities has resulted in an increased number of AI generated works and an understanding that humans are no longer the only source of creativity or innovation.

# What if Artificial Intelligence Wrote This? Artifical Intelligence and Copyright Law
[Article](https://scholarship.law.ufl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1439&context=flr) 

Although current technology seems to be approaching the physical limit of computational power per unit area (a trend called “the end of Moore’s law”), experts nonetheless believe that computational power will continue to increase due to breakthroughs in other areas of computer engineering.

In short, artificial intelligence will continue to become more and more sophisticated, increasingly blurring the line between human and computer authorship, until Congress or the federal courts are forced to act.

"No copyright shall be granted for works generated by a computer in circumstances such that there is no human author of the work."

Russian President Vladimir Putin, for example, has called artificial intelligence the “future . . . of all of mankind,” stating that “[w]hoever becomes the leader in this sphere will become the ruler of the world.” [Source](https://www.cnn.com/2017/09/01/world/putin-artificial-intelligence-will-rule-world/index.html)

"immediate entrance into the public domain is the best approach to resolving the question of copyright ownership of works
created by autonomous artificial intelligence. The artificial intelligence industry will likely continue to thrive regardless of copyrights, and this approach would help ensure that humans remain an integral part of creative fields."

# The gap between humans and AI is closing... 
[Article](https://analyticsindiamag.com/open-ai-gpt-3-language-model/)

"The quality of the text generated by GPT-3 is so high that it can be difficult to determine whether or not it was written by a human, which has both benefits and risks."

# Generating Rembrandt: Artificial Intelligence, Copyright, and Accountability in the 3A Era--The Human-like Authors are Already Here- A New Model
[Article](https://ir.lawnet.fordham.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1955&context=faculty_scholarship)

"Many scholars have recently adopted the idea that autonomy, creativity, and spontaneous evolution of AI systems leads to the recognition of AI systems (and robot embedded systems) as independent legal entities entitled to legal and commercial rights and duties."

# AI and copyrighten datasets

## Stability AI & Getty images
[Article](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2023/02/getty-sues-stability-ai-for-copying-12m-photos-and-imitating-famous-watermark/)

"Stability AI has copied more than 12 million photographs from Getty Images’ collection, along with the associated captions and metadata, without permission from or compensation to Getty Images, as part of its efforts to build a competing business." [Lawsuit](https://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/legaldocs/byvrlkmwnve/GETTY%20IMAGES%20AI%20LAWSUIT%20complaint.pdf)

In this lawsuit, Getty alleged that Stability AI went so far as to remove Getty’s copyright management information, falsify its own copyright management information, and infringe upon Getty’s “famous trademarks” by duplicating Getty’s watermark on some images. On top of those lawsuits, Stability AI is also facing a class-action lawsuit from artists claiming that the company trained its Stable Diffusion model on billions of copyrighted artworks without compensating artists or asking for permission.

"Rather than paying Getty for licenses to train its Stable Diffusion model “in a manner that respects personal and intellectual property rights,” Getty said that “Stability AI did not seek any such license from Getty Images” and seemingly “chose to ignore viable licensing options and long‑standing legal protections in pursuit of their stand‑alone commercial interests."

AI has often been found to very closely replicate copyrighten images, to the point where it would be considered copyright infringement.

# My thoughts

Works that aren't produced my a human fall under public domain, hence AI generated work falling outside of copyright.
AI can be used as a tool rather than a full replacement to creative work. One example of this is using software such as Photoshop to delete a portion of the image. The software uses AI to make to produced a content aware filled output to effectively hide the portion of the image that was deleted. In most cases the image would still be left to the original copyright owner. But at which point is AI overused and the image falls back into public domain? That's difficult to determine.

There is no such thing as an original idea. Our ideas are modifications of previous ideas whether that be ideas of others or our own perceptions. And because of this some may argue that AI generated content is very much the same. It's taking inspiration from many previous ideas and works and creating something "original" out of it. Much like a human would. Using this logic it would make the very idea of generative work from AI ethical to use. But this only takes into account the end result and not what goes into AI to create this work. 
