---
title: "Summary Classification Evaluation Essay"
date: 2023-02-03T21:41:00-07:00
---

**Summary, Classification, & Evaluation Essay**

“Is Academic Writing Becoming More Informal?” by Ken Hyland and Feng Jiang examines the slow increase in the use of informal features in academic writing. The authors suggest that this is due to changing rhetorical practices and that informality can help strengthen arguments. The article concludes that the use of informal features is positive, as it makes the writing more engaging and accessible to a wider audience. This source is more likely to be a primary source as they analyzed other articles and created original data to draw conclusions from. Key terms and definitions are defined and cited by other references, but the underlying data included in the article is original and conducted by the authors. The source is more likely to be a scholarly source, as it provides analysis, direct methods, and statistics to gather conclusions. The article goes into depth in the specific ways that they classify informal writing and provides clear examples and definitions to back up their research. This article is not an example of a trade source because it doesn’t provide information or promotion to a specific industry or trade. The authors are likely to be considered experts at this topic because features and definitions of informality and the research process are clearly explained using many references to provide insights on those topics. This source is likely to be considered objective, this is because statistical data is used to analyze the trends in academic writing. At the end of the article discussion and conclusion is opened up between multiple references. They use each of these references’ insights to provide many conclusions and further add to the discussion about the future trends in academic writing. The use of comparing these resources shifts away from the authors’ personal opinions and provides a more in-depth multiperspective approach to their conclusion.

In "Writer Identity in Academic Writing" by V.M. Simandan, the use of pronouns and writer identity in academic writing is discussed. The article includes a video that examines five different aspects of academic writing, including the use of writer identity in "hard sciences" and "soft knowledge". The article then continues by discussing the different ways the personal pronoun "I" can be used in academic writing and concludes by discussing the stereotype that academic writing is not personal, but highlights the increasing use of personal pronouns in academic writing. This article is more likely to be a secondary source. The author is drawing conclusions and making observations based on existing work, rather than presenting new data or findings. The source is more likely to be a substantive source. This is because the source provides analytics and data through a research process but the article fails to back up terminology and claims with other sources. It’s likely that much of the terminology was gathered from the resources used in the analysis. Each of the sources are related to identity in writing, which so happens to be the topic of the article. This source is not an example of a trade source, it’s not directly related to a specific trade or profession. The author is not likely to be considered an expert at this topic. This is because of the shallow insight provided on the topic and the sheer amount of articles published by the same author that aren’t related to academic writing. The article is more likely to be objective, as the author analyzes the different uses of “I” in academic articles and counts the amount of times each is used. The article contains formal references for each of the articles that were analyzed in the study. No other references were included to contribute to the research made in the article.

The article “Johnson Rules to live by” questions the effectiveness of grammar instruction in improving writing skills. The national curriculum in England focuses on underlining relative clauses, however there is no evidence that this improves writing skills. The article suggests that language analysis should be a requirement in university English courses and that grammar should be treated as puzzles to solve. This article would be considered a secondary source. In this case, the article is offering insights and perspectives on the effectiveness of grammar instruction in improving writing skills, and isn’t a first-hand account of teaching grammar. The article is also more likely to be a popular source. This was because there isn’t any data or analytics regarding their claim suggesting that language analysis should be a requirement and taught differently. It provides shallow information and research regarding England’s national curriculum and how grammar being taught there isn’t effective. This source is not an example of a trade source because it isn’t promoting any specific trade or business. The author would not likely be considered an expert at this topic. This is because of their lack of data and research. The argument in the article is based on personal opinions and experiences, rather than evidence or established research findings. This makes the article more likely to be considered biased. There’s no other resources or references used to back up their claims which leads to an opinionated piece.

"Doing Academic Writing in Education: Connecting the Personal and the Professional" by Janet C. Richards and Sharon K. Miller focuses on the difficulty of balancing personal and professional academic writing. The book explores the idea that everyone has two separate voices and it aims to help readers differentiate between the two and become confident academic writers while retaining their personal views. The preface outlines the ways in which writers can improve their writing and introduces the seven chapters that aim to enable students to become confident professionals in academic writing while retaining their personal voice. This source is considered secondary because it doesn’t provide any original analytics or data, instead it acts as a guide to help students better achieve academic writing in education. This source is more likely to be considered scholarly because the book provides a very detailed and in-depth explanation on balancing personal and professional academic writing. Many sources are used to assist in providing insights on the academic writing process. This source is not an example of a trade source because it isn’t aimed for professionals working in a specific industry. It’s aimed towards students and assists them in improving their academic writing whilst retaining their personal voice. The authors are considered to be experts in this topic because they provided extremely detailed and well thought out explanations and methods for students looking to improve their academic writing. This source would be considered neither objective or biased. Specific personal opinions and preferences aren’t incorporated, and specific data or analysis are also not present. The book tends to follow general standards and guidelines for writing academic pieces. It also contains a vast amount of formal references. The references indicate that the source is credible because they are used in combination to provide explanations and conclusions on the different aspects of formulating academic writing.
