---
title: "Survey of the Conversation"
date: 2023-02-19T18:31:23-07:00
---

Recent developments in artificial intelligence have taken the world by storm. Large language models, stable diffusion generative image technologies, and automatic speech recognition neural networks have led to a rise in AI tools and technologies. Many predict that the next generation of software and search engines will utilize these AI tools to further assist users.

“The recent development of machine learning capabilities has resulted in an increased number of AI generated works and an understanding that humans are no longer the only source of creativity or innovation” (Hristov, 2016). The introduction of this new technology raises several concerns. OpenAI researchers claim that GPT-3, a large language model, “has the potential to advance both the beneficial and harmful applications of language models.” One of the most notable concerns addresses the application of copyright laws to computer-generated material. This new form of innovation has sparked a debate over the extent of copyright protection that should be given to artificial intelligent-generated works. As machines become capable of producing original content without human intervention, it becomes increasingly unclear whether traditional copyright laws are equipped to handle the complexities of this new form of technology. Palace states that “artificial intelligence will continue to become more and more sophisticated, increasingly blurring the line between human and computer authorship, until Congress or the federal courts are forced to act.”

The current copyright law claims that works created entirely by AI machines cannot be copyrighted unless they meet the human authorship criteria set forth by the Copyright Office. This stems from the court case Naruto v. Slater. In this case David Slater, a wildlife photographer, had his camera stolen by a macaque. The macaque took numerous photos, which later David attempted to license under the presumption that he owned their copyright. The case of Naruto v. Slater was dismissed by the judge in January 2016. Hristov states that “the judge further clarified that since an animal (non-human) does not have legal standing in court, it may not sue or pursue copyright using the law.” As a result of this court case, AI generated work falls under public domain and isn’t subject to copyright.

The emergence of creative works generated by AI has led to a dispute between content creators and artists. As there have been several instances of AI generated content striking extremely close visual similarity from the original artist works. This is a direct consequence of the training process used to develop the AI model, which typically involves gathering and analyzing large datasets. These datasets may contain copyrighted materials that the AI may incorporate into its generated works, leading to questions regarding ownership and the legality of using such content without permission. According to a Getty Images’ lawsuit, “Stability AI has copied more than 12 million photographs from Getty Images’ collection, along with the associated captions and metadata, without permission from or compensation to Getty Images, as part of its efforts to build a competing business.” This copyright infringement was uncovered when users of Stability's image generation models noticed that some of the generated images still contained Getty's watermark.

In conclusion, recent advances in artificial intelligence have brought about a multitude of new tools and technologies that have the potential to revolutionize the way we approach various tasks. However, the rise of AI-generated content has also raised important questions about the application of copyright laws to these works. While current copyright law states that works created entirely by AI machines cannot be copyrighted unless they meet human authorship criteria, the emergence of AI-generated content has led to a dispute between content creators and artists. It is essential that we find a way to balance the benefits of these new technologies with the rights of creators and copyright holders, in order to promote innovation while also protecting the integrity of the creative process.

**References**

Case 1:23-cv-00135-UNA. (2023, February 3). IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE GETTY IMAGES (US), INC. Plaintiff, v. STABILITY AI, INC. Defen. Retrieved February 19, 2023, from https://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/legaldocs/byvrlkmwnve/GETTY%20IMAGES%20AI%20LAWSUIT%20complaint.pdf

Hristov, K. (2016). Artificial intelligence and the copyright dilemma. Idea, 57, 431.

OpenAI researchers. (2020, May 28). [2005.14165] Language Models are Few-Shot Learners. arXiv. Retrieved February 19, 2023, from https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.14165

Palace, V. M. (2019). What if artificial intelligence wrote this: artificial intelligence and copyright law. Fla. L. Rev., 71, 217.
