---
title: "Financial Planning Write"
date: 2023-02-12T21:37:28-07:00
---

Planning out my work can have remarkable effects on productivity, time management, and overall success in achieving goals. Planning out work is a crucial step in organizing and prioritizing tasks. By taking the time to map out my responsibilities and deadlines, I am able to visualize the big picture and make a strategy to tackle each task effectively. This can lead to increased productivity, as I am able to focus on one task at a time and eliminate distractions and procrastination. Effective time management is also improved, as I am able to allocate time effectively and make the most of every moment. Furthermore, planning out your work helps increase the chances of success in achieving your goals, as it allows you to stay on track, make necessary adjustments, and stay motivated. So, if you want to achieve your goals and maximize your potential, don't underestimate the power of planning.

Planning helps me to break down complex assignments into smaller, manageable tasks. This allows for a clearer understanding of what needs to be done, and when, resulting in better time management and reduced stress levels. Planning also helps me to prioritize my studies, ensuring that they are putting their efforts into subjects that are most important and relevant to their future goals. 

I realized the true importance of planning when working on my Udemy game development course. I’m trying to create a course to teach beginners how to make video games using the Godot game engine. There’s so much work that has to go into this course before it’s released. I often find myself procrastinating and finding excuses or other projects to push the current tasks away. Over time I started to realize if I don’t change how I approach this course I may never finish it. This is when I started planning and began managing my time better. I would often sit down to work on the course and be unable to find where to start. This would lead to increased procrastination and worse time management. After I started planning it out and breaking down the project I can better manage my time and prevent procrastination. I can simply go down my list of small tasks and quickly check them off. This makes large parts of the project much more digestible and simpler to complete.

By making a list I can set aside time each day to accomplish at least two items from the list. Since each of the items are made to be as simple as possible, it ensures that I avoid procrastination. Since this year I’ve begun following the same process for my homework. With many college classes on my schedule, procrastination needs to be avoided. Most of my classes make the homework done throughout the week due on Sunday. I know that I can’t put off all that work for Sunday otherwise the work won’t be complete. Effort must be put in to spread out and prioritize homework throughout the week in order to make sure everything gets complete by the end of the week.

Having a financial plan now can have a significant impact on my future financial stability and success. Having a financial plan in place can help reduce stress and anxiety about my finances. I’ll have a clear understanding of where my money is going and how much I have to work with, which can provide a peace of mind. With a financial plan, I’ll have a better idea of how much I can afford to save each month. A financial plan can also help me make smart decisions about major life events, such as starting a family, buying a house, or changing careers. With a clear understanding of my financial situation, I can make informed decisions that align with my goals and priorities. Life can be unpredictable, and having a financial plan can help me prepare for unexpected events, such as job loss or illness. With a plan in place, I’ll have a safety net to fall back on, and I’ll be better equipped to weather any financial storms that come my way.

Currently I don’t have an official job. I do make some income through YouTube revenue and Patreon. YouTube makes me about $100 every couple of months and Patreon varies between $2 - $12 every month. Obviously the amount of money and the consistency of the money isn’t enough to sustain myself. School is currently my priority; I wouldn’t be able to maintain my current grades with a job. I’m hoping that my investment in making my Udemy course pays off and pays enough to become a side job. Most of the money I make from these platforms will go into my savings for college. I try to keep track of my spendings and make sure that I keep major purchases to a minimum. With little income going in, I have to be cautious about the money I spend, in order to not protrude into my college savings. 

After school I plan on getting a traditional job and continue saving for college. Once I have an increased financial security from a job I will begin to invest my money more and make larger needed purchases. I will continue to track my spending, and make a budget with the monthly income that I am making. By making a budget I can be realistic about my spending and ensure that I’m putting money into my needs first before my wants. 
