---
title: "Journals 1"
date: 2023-02-19T21:37:28-07:00
---

**Journal 1:**
I realized how much your mindset matters. You can be more than capable and hold yourself back if you don’t have a growth mindset. I’ve seen this myself. I often doubt my abilities hold certain projects back because they are risky and I don’t believe in myself enough to pull them off. I’ve learned that with this mindset, everything I do won’t be enough. I need to be able to believe in myself and push myself to see that even through failure I can find success. I need to change my mindset. In that clip the football player didn’t believe in himself and the team. The coach forced him to believe. He hid his progress away from him, and pushed him to his absolute limit. This allowed him to see just how much he’s capable of. After reflecting on this, I realize I need to apply this to my own life.

**Journal 2:**
This song felt somewhat negative to me. It was embracing American culture and the norms associated with it. The fact that many individuals go out to make as much money as possible and seek happiness with the things that they buy. The song talks about buying diamonds and many materialistic things which people believe to bring happiness. I related to this message on a personal level. I often do the opposite of what the song was singing about. I don’t often spend my money, I try to save it and utilize it in the best way possible. I realize that the things I buy don’t bring me happiness. Under certain circumstances money can buy me opportunities and things to encourage happiness, but at the end of the day I realized that money won’t bring that happiness.

**Journal 3:**
Ultimately you will be faced with decisions in life. Everyday there are decisions, they currently seem very minor. These decisions ultimately shape who we are and the direction that we choose to go in life. I’m going to be facing some major decisions really soon. I don’t know the direction that I’m going to take right now. Just like Alice, I’m confused and asking questions on which direction to take, even though these questions are mine to answer. My current plan is to finish high school and continue to take a few college courses over the summer to then get my Associates in computer science. I then plan on going on a mission, and after that mission I will pick up where I left off on my education. 

**Journal 4:**
The decision making process consists of identifying the problem, gathering information and listing possible alternatives, considering the consequences for each of the alternatives, selecting the best course of action, and evaluating the results. I have learned that decision making isn’t always straightforward. There’s always a risk that you take with every decision. There’s some pros and cons that you may not see immediately before you buy the product. For example, I bought an Insta360 camera. Initially I was going to use the camera for creating HDRI and using it for CGI. The first week I had the camera I didn’t do much with it. I then started to use it to record family trips and preserve family memories. This has led to me buying more cameras, creating family videos, getting into cinematography and filmmaking, and encouraging me to go on more family adventures. On paper I wouldn’t have seen any of these outcomes before buying the product. But after this purchase I realized that it can lead to so much more.

**Journal 5:**
The steps in a financial plan include: determine your current financial situation, develop your financial goals, identify your options, evaluate your alternatives, create and use your financial plan of action, and review and revise your plan. I was able to reach a financial goal when I finished creating my YouTube video courses and started earning ad revenue. I received my first $100 payment from Google.

**Journal 6:**
Smart stands for: specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and timely. Setting smart goals has helped to achieve my goals in life. One of the biggest smart goals that I have achieved was finishing my online networking multiplayer course. There weren't many other resources on YouTube about this aspect of game development, and I was hoping to make a course to fill in that gap. Making the course was so much more difficult than I anticipated, but by setting it as a SMART goal, I was able to complete it.

**Journal 7:**
Goals are something that you work and put in effort to achieve. They are the end result that you are hoping to receive in putting in your effort. Goals are incredibly important as they help better improve ourselves and push ourselves to do hard things. I set a goal to finish my game Weaponeer and get it published. The game went through an initial year of development. I faced a lot of burn out and often put off working on the game. I published the game and it initially did really well. I got picked up by a publishing company. And I agreed to make exclusive content and republish the game under their platform. 

**Journal 8:**
I really liked how Unit 1 at its core was about decision making. This is by far the greatest life skill someone can have. If you can make informed decisions and follow the decision making process that will take you far in life. It’s a skill that really isn’t taught to the extent that it should be. Every decision that you make in your life is influenced by your decision making process. These decisions shape who we are and others around us. I believe that it’s really important to know this process and understand what goes into good decision making.

**Journal 9:**
My dream vacation would be going with my family to Oregon. I really like the trees there and I believe it would be fun to hang out in an AirBNB cabin and get some footage with the camera. Whenever we go on vacation I create a video of the vacation afterwards. I think it’s really fun to get the footage, and just enjoy living in the moment. 

**Journal 10:**
My hard work paid off when I took the risk to learn and teach a new game engine. Previously I was using Game Maker Studio which was being deprecated, and I had to find a new option. I planned on teaching game development in a club in junior high, so I needed to find a game engine that would be viable for teaching. Game Maker Studio 2 was coming out and it would’ve been the easier option. The only problem was that I would have to pay for the engine’s licenses which wouldn’t be viable for class. This led to me taking a risk and learning a new engine called Godot. After spending a large portion of my summer learning this new engine I began to work on my first course. I then published the course on YouTube in time for teaching the club. The club was a massive success. I had well over 20 people showing up each week. I taught them the basics of the engine using this course. This served as a springboard that allowed me to grow my YouTube channel teaching tens of thousands of people online. I am now working on a Udemy course and I’m excited to see what the future holds.

